README.md, before:

# CrimethInc. website

Ruby on Rails app that powers https://crimethinc.com

## Development

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/crimethinc/website.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/crimethinc/website)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/22ef4ea6475be7057b87/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/crimethinc/website/maintainability)

## Short Version

**First things first**, [Strap](https://macos-strap.herokuapp.com) your computer’s development environment.

```sh
open https://macos-strap.herokuapp.com/strap.sh
```

Then…

```sh
bash ~/Downloads/strap.sh
rm -f ~/Downloads/strap.sh
git clone https://github.com/crimethinc/website.git
cd website
./script/setup
./script/server
```

## Scripts to Rule Them All

CrimethInc. website uses the [Scripts to Rule Them All](https://githubengineering.com/scripts-to-rule-them-all) pattern.
See also: https://github.com/github/scripts-to-rule-them-all

`/script` is a collection of scripts for development on an OS X / macOS computer.
Development setup on a Windows or Linux computer may vary.

If any of these scripts fail for you, , [file an issue](https://github.com/crimethinc/website/issues)
with as much detail about your setup and any errors you got from the script, and we’ll try to fix whatever’s happening.

## Development Scripts

The rest of these instructions assume that you've [strapped your computer](https://macos-strap.herokuapp.com) already. If you haven't, you'll need to install somethings manually. (But really, you're better off using [Strap](https://osx-strap.herokuapp.com).)

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
- Homebrew taps and extensions
- Xcode command line tools
- Postgres launchctl (for `setup` script)

### Bootstrap script

The `bootstrap` script is the first time development environment configuration for this app.
You should only need to run this script once.
It will install the proper Ruby and PostgreSQL database versions.

Clone this repo.

```
git clone https://github.com/crimethinc/website.git
cd website
```

Then run the `bootstrap` script.

```
./script/bootstrap
```

### Setup script

After you've `bootstrap`ed, you'll need to `setup`.
The `setup` setups the Rails environment (creates, migrates and seeds databases, then clears logs and tmp).

```
./script/setup
```

#### Can't Load Gem from /vendor Error

If you get an error that some gem can't be loaded, like `bcrypt_ext`, follow these steps to rebuild this repo's dev setup. From the root directory of this repo:

```
rm -rf vendor/gems
rm -rf .bundle
./script/setup
```

### Server script

The `server` script starts the Rails server on port `3000`
(using **Foreman** which uses the `Procile` which uses **Puma**.)

```
./script/server
```

#### Can't Find Posgresql Error

If you get an error when starting the server that Rails can't connect to the Posgresql server, you can fix it with these steps. (Assuming, you're on a Mac and use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)).

**WARNING:** These step will DELETE all Posgresql databases / software and re-install Posgresql from scratch.
If you have data in your local Posgresql database that you can't re-create after deleting it, you'll want to run some backups first. (That's an exercise for the reader.)

```
brew services stop postgresql
brew uninstall postgresql
rm -rf /usr/local/var/postgres/
brew install postgresql
brew services start postgresql
```

### Update script

Periodically, you can run the `update` script to check for new versions of dependencies and to update the database schema. If you ever get a `PendingMigrationError`, run this script to migrate your database.

```
./script/update
```

### Test script

Run the test suite using the `test` script.

```
./script/test
```

### Test server script

To run a process which runs tests on file change

```
./script/test_server
```

### Console script

If you need to use the app's console (in any environment), use the `console` script.

```
./script/console
```

If you need to use the console on a remote instance of the app, specific its environment name as the first argument.

```
./script/console production
```

Or

```
./script/console staging
```

### CI Build script

Setup environment for CI to run tests. This is primarily designed to run on the continuous integration server.

```
./script/cibuild
```

### Database seed script

Drop the database, rebuild it, and fill it with seed data.

```
./script/seed
```

## Development Setup with Docker
If you're doing development on Linux, you may find it more comfortable to run the website in a container. You can do this easily using Docker.

First, you'll need to have a Postgres instance running. If you're just doing development and have no need to persist database changes to disk, you can run one like and print out its IP address like this:
```
docker run -d --name postgres postgres:latest
docker inspect -f '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' postgres
```

We're going to assume that the Postgres container's IP address was `172.17.0.2` for the next few steps; if that's not the case, be sure to replace it as appropriate.

Next, you need to build the Docker image, create, and then seed the database:
```
docker build -t crimethinc .
docker run --rm postgres:latest psql -h 172.17.0.2 -U postgres -c 'create database crimethinc;'
docker run --rm -e DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres@172.17.0.2/crimethinc crimethinc bin/rails db:migrate db:seed
```

Now, you can run the app:
```
docker run -it --rm -e DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres@172.17.0.2/crimethinc -p 3000:3000 crimethinc
```

You'll now be able to access the app at [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/).

When you're done, you can stop and remove your Postgres container:
```
docker stop postgres
docker rm postgres
```

## Deploy to Heroku

Click this button to easily deploy to Heroku. (You must have a Heroku account.)

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.png)](https://heroku.com/deploy)


## Authors

* Shane Becker / [@veganstraightedge](https://github.com/veganstraightedge)
* [@astronaut-wannabe](https://github.com/astronaut-wannabe)
* Geoff Foley / [@GeoffFoley](https://github.com/geofffoley)
* ( add yourself )


## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/crimethinc/website/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

If you find bugs, have feature requests or questions, please
[file an issue](https://github.com/crimethinc/website/issues).


## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the CrimethInc.'s project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms, and mailing lists is expected to follow the
[CrimethInc. development code of conduct](https://github.com/crimethinc/website/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).


## License

**PUBLIC DOMAIN**

Your heart is as free as the air you breathe. <br>
The ground you stand on is liberated territory.

In legal text, **CrimethInc. website** is dedicated to the public domain
using Creative Commons -- CC0 1.0 Universal.

[https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0 "Creative Commons &mdash; CC0 1.0 Universal")

Commit message:

Adds note for seeding
Sometimes you can end up with no articles after completing the initial setup steps.

README.md, after:

# CrimethInc. website

Ruby on Rails app that powers https://crimethinc.com

## Development

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/crimethinc/website.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/crimethinc/website)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/22ef4ea6475be7057b87/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/crimethinc/website/maintainability)

## Short Version

**First things first**, [Strap](https://macos-strap.herokuapp.com) your computer’s development environment.

```sh
open https://macos-strap.herokuapp.com/strap.sh
```

Then…

```sh
bash ~/Downloads/strap.sh
rm -f ~/Downloads/strap.sh
git clone https://github.com/crimethinc/website.git
cd website
./script/setup
./script/server
```

## Scripts to Rule Them All

CrimethInc. website uses the [Scripts to Rule Them All](https://githubengineering.com/scripts-to-rule-them-all) pattern.
See also: https://github.com/github/scripts-to-rule-them-all

`/script` is a collection of scripts for development on an OS X / macOS computer.
Development setup on a Windows or Linux computer may vary.

If any of these scripts fail for you, , [file an issue](https://github.com/crimethinc/website/issues)
with as much detail about your setup and any errors you got from the script, and we’ll try to fix whatever’s happening.

## Development Scripts

The rest of these instructions assume that you've [strapped your computer](https://macos-strap.herokuapp.com) already. If you haven't, you'll need to install somethings manually. (But really, you're better off using [Strap](https://osx-strap.herokuapp.com).)

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
- Homebrew taps and extensions
- Xcode command line tools
- Postgres launchctl (for `setup` script)

### Bootstrap script

The `bootstrap` script is the first time development environment configuration for this app.
You should only need to run this script once.
It will install the proper Ruby and PostgreSQL database versions.

Clone this repo.

```
git clone https://github.com/crimethinc/website.git
cd website
```

Then run the `bootstrap` script.

```
./script/bootstrap
```

### Setup script

After you've `bootstrap`ed, you'll need to `setup`.
The `setup` setups the Rails environment (creates, migrates and seeds databases, then clears logs and tmp).

```
./script/setup
```

#### Can't Load Gem from /vendor Error

If you get an error that some gem can't be loaded, like `bcrypt_ext`, follow these steps to rebuild this repo's dev setup. From the root directory of this repo:

```
rm -rf vendor/gems
rm -rf .bundle
./script/setup
```

### Server script

The `server` script starts the Rails server on port `3000`
(using **Foreman** which uses the `Procile` which uses **Puma**.)

```
./script/server
```

#### Site's running but no articles?

Stop the server, [seed the DB](#seeding), then run the server script again.

#### Can't Find Posgresql Error

If you get an error when starting the server that Rails can't connect to the Posgresql server, you can fix it with these steps. (Assuming, you're on a Mac and use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)).

**WARNING:** These step will DELETE all Posgresql databases / software and re-install Posgresql from scratch.
If you have data in your local Posgresql database that you can't re-create after deleting it, you'll want to run some backups first. (That's an exercise for the reader.)

```
brew services stop postgresql
brew uninstall postgresql
rm -rf /usr/local/var/postgres/
brew install postgresql
brew services start postgresql
```

### Update script

Periodically, you can run the `update` script to check for new versions of dependencies and to update the database schema. If you ever get a `PendingMigrationError`, run this script to migrate your database.

```
./script/update
```

### Test script

Run the test suite using the `test` script.

```
./script/test
```

### Test server script

To run a process which runs tests on file change

```
./script/test_server
```

### Console script

If you need to use the app's console (in any environment), use the `console` script.

```
./script/console
```

If you need to use the console on a remote instance of the app, specific its environment name as the first argument.

```
./script/console production
```

Or

```
./script/console staging
```

### CI Build script

Setup environment for CI to run tests. This is primarily designed to run on the continuous integration server.

```
./script/cibuild
```

### <a name="seeding"></a> Database seed script

Drop the database, rebuild it, and fill it with seed data.

```
./script/seed
```

## Development Setup with Docker
If you're doing development on Linux, you may find it more comfortable to run the website in a container. You can do this easily using Docker.

First, you'll need to have a Postgres instance running. If you're just doing development and have no need to persist database changes to disk, you can run one like and print out its IP address like this:
```
docker run -d --name postgres postgres:latest
docker inspect -f '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' postgres
```

We're going to assume that the Postgres container's IP address was `172.17.0.2` for the next few steps; if that's not the case, be sure to replace it as appropriate.

Next, you need to build the Docker image, create, and then seed the database:
```
docker build -t crimethinc .
docker run --rm postgres:latest psql -h 172.17.0.2 -U postgres -c 'create database crimethinc;'
docker run --rm -e DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres@172.17.0.2/crimethinc crimethinc bin/rails db:migrate db:seed
```

Now, you can run the app:
```
docker run -it --rm -e DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres@172.17.0.2/crimethinc -p 3000:3000 crimethinc
```

You'll now be able to access the app at [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/).

When you're done, you can stop and remove your Postgres container:
```
docker stop postgres
docker rm postgres
```

## Deploy to Heroku

Click this button to easily deploy to Heroku. (You must have a Heroku account.)

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.png)](https://heroku.com/deploy)


## Authors

* Shane Becker / [@veganstraightedge](https://github.com/veganstraightedge)
* [@astronaut-wannabe](https://github.com/astronaut-wannabe)
* Geoff Foley / [@GeoffFoley](https://github.com/geofffoley)
* ( add yourself )


## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/crimethinc/website/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

If you find bugs, have feature requests or questions, please
[file an issue](https://github.com/crimethinc/website/issues).


## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the CrimethInc.'s project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms, and mailing lists is expected to follow the
[CrimethInc. development code of conduct](https://github.com/crimethinc/website/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).


## License

**PUBLIC DOMAIN**

Your heart is as free as the air you breathe. <br>
The ground you stand on is liberated territory.

In legal text, **CrimethInc. website** is dedicated to the public domain
using Creative Commons -- CC0 1.0 Universal.

[https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0 "Creative Commons &mdash; CC0 1.0 Universal")
